Instructor: Let's look at how
we can use some of the things
we've learned in EarSketch
to create a looping
musical transition.
This is what the transition
is going to sound like
when we're done,
starting here on measure 13.
We have a sound that repeats
over and over again,
but as it repeats,
it gets shorter
and shorter and shorter.
There's also a sound effect
that comes in on another track
here at the end.
[electronic beeping
at a slow tempo]
[tempo speeds up]
So we've written a function here
called "transition()"
that does all the work for us.
It takes in one parameter
which is the starting measure
of the transition.
As it's used in this script,
of course the starting measure
is measure 13 here.
And it in turn calls
another function,
which I'll look over
in a minute,
called easyLoops().
And easyLoops() takes
a starting measure,
a number of repetitions,
and a beat string,
and then it will repeat
that beat string
for the specified
number of repetitions.
So we call easyLoops()
four times here.
The first time
starting right at startMeasure,
so in this case measure 13,
and repeating
this eight-character beat string
four times.
The next time,
we start two measures later
startMeasure+2,
again repeating four times
but our beat string
has gotten shorter.
It only has
four characters in it.
The next time,
we're a measure later,
startMeasure+3,
so measure 16 in this case.
Again repeating four times,
but our beat string
has again gotten shorter.
It's only
two characters long now.
And finally, 3.5 measures after
our original starting point,
so measure 16.5 here,
we're repeating
a single character beat string
eight times.
And then the last line here
is a fitMedia() call which puts
this swoosh sound effect
onto a different track,
track three,
for the last two measures
of this transition.
Let's scroll up here
and look at the easyLoops()
function itself
and how it's implemented.
We're using the same
string concatenation ideas
that we looked at
in the last chapter.
And see, we begin
with an endString,
which is defined
as an empty string.
So just
a beginning quotation mark
and an ending quotation mark.
And then there's a "for" loop
to repeat the concatenation
however many times are
specified
by the numSteps parameter.
So if this is four,
it will repeat four times.
And each time,
we're concatenating
our beat string
onto the end of endString.
So if numSteps is 4,
we'll concatenate startString
on four times in a row.
And that's what the
"endString += startString"
is doing.
It's performing
that string concatenation.
And then finally,
we have a makeBeat() call here,
where we take a lead sound
on track one,
we start at startMeasure,
and then we put
that concatenated string
in there,
so it's repeated as many times
as we've requested.
The rest of this script is
pretty standard EarSketch stuff.
And see,
we import the EarSketch library,
call init() and setTempo().
We define a beat string,
and we define all the sounds
as variables that we're using
inside of the song.
And then,
the easyLoops() function
that we already reviewed.
Section one
simply calls fitMedia()
to put a few different sounds
into section one.
Our transition function
does the transition section
we've already looked at.
And then section two
also has some makeBeat()
and fitMedia() calls
to place the musical content
into section two of the piece,
the section that we're
transitioning into.
Then we call
the different functions here:
section1(), transition(),
and section2().
And there's a final call
to fitMedia()
to create a wobble sound effect
at the very end of the song.
And then we set some effects,
a volume effect to mix
the varying levels
on our different tracks.
And then there's a filter sweep
that we put
onto track 2 as well.
Let's go ahead and run this
and we can listen
to the full song.
[electronic hip-hop beat]
Now the transition.
Section two.
[electronic hip-hop beat]